The 2015–16 season was Leicester City Football Club 's 111th season in the English football league system and their 48th (non-consecutive) season in the top tier of English football, and the second consecutive season. During the season, Leicester participated in the Premier League , as well as the FA Cup and League Cup .

In what was described as one of the greatest sporting stories of all time, Leicester were confirmed as champions of the 2015–16 Premier League season on 2 May 2016, finishing top of England's highest league for the first time in the club's history. The club was a 5000–1 underdog with bookmakers to win the division before the season kicked off. The feat meant that Leicester would be playing in the UEFA Champions League the following season, a first for the club in their history.

The season also saw history be made for individual players within the team, as striker Jamie Vardy broke the record for consecutive games with a goal in the Premier League (11) and winger Riyad Mahrez became both the first African and Algerian player to be the recipient of the PFA Players' Player of the Year .

On 21 May 2015, Leicester City confirmed their first three pre-season friendlies against Lincoln City , Mansfield Town and Birmingham City . On 22 May 2015, Leicester City added a trip to Burton Albion to their pre-season schedule. On 30 June 2015, the Foxes confirmed a friendly against Rotherham United .

On 14 June 2015, Marcin Wasilewski signed a one-year contract. On 2 July 2015, Dean Hammond signed a one-year contract extension until the summer of 2016.

Leicester's first pre-season match was a 3–1 away win over Lincoln City on 21 July 2015. Four days later, they drew 1–1 to Mansfield Town . On 29 July, Leicester travelled to Burton Albion , winning 2–1. The next day, they won away to Rotherham United by the same score. In their last pre-season friendly, Leicester beat Birmingham City 3–2 at St. Andrew's .

Leicester opened their Premier League campaign on 8 August 2015 with a 4–2 victory over Sunderland . Jamie Vardy scored the opener, with a brace from Riyad Mahrez and Marc Albrighton adding to the scoreline. Jermain Defoe and Steven Fletcher ’s goals weren’t enough to secure a point for the away side. The next week, Leicester beat West Ham United 2–1 at Upton Park thanks to Mahrez and Shinji Okazaki ; Dimitri Payet scored the only goal for the home side. On 22 August 2015, Mahrez rescued a point against Tottenham Hotspur after Dele Alli scored the opener. On 25 August, Leicester travelled to Bury for their second round League Cup tie, running out 4–1 winners. Joe Dodoo scored a hat-trick and another was dispatched by Andrej Kramarić , while Danny Mayor scored the only goal for the League One side. On 29 August, Vardy scored a late penalty to rescue a point away to Bournemouth , after Callum Wilson scored for the home side in the first half.

On 13 September, Leicester found themselves 2–0 down at home to Aston Villa , with Jack Grealish and Carles Gil on the scoresheet. The Foxes would launch a second half comeback, as goals from Vardy, Ritchie De Laet and Nathan Dyer put them 3–2 up. On 19 September, they found themselves trailing 2–0 again, this time away to Stoke City . Mahrez dispatched a penalty before Vardy scored the equaliser. On 22 September, Leicester beat West Ham United in extra time in the third round of the League Cup. Dodoo scored an early goal before Mauro Zárate equalised for the visitors. Andy King scored the winner in the 116th minute. On 26 September, Leicester faced Arsenal at the King Power Stadium . A brace from Vardy was not enough to beat the Gunners, as they lost 5–2; Theo Walcott scored the equaliser after falling 1–0 behind before Alexis Sánchez scored a hat-trick, and Olivier Giroud scored the fifth for Arsenal.

Leicester began October with a 2–1 victory over Norwich City , as Vardy scored a penalty and from Jeffrey Schlupp added to the scoreline. On 17 October, Southampton led Leicester 2–0 before the interval. A brace from Vardy secured a point for the Foxes. On 24 October, Leicester won 1–0 over Crystal Palace , with Vardy on the scoresheet once again. On 27 October, Leicester travelled to Hull City for their fourth round League Cup tie. The match remained goalless until Mahrez scored in extra time, but not before Abel Hernández equalised for the hosts. Leicester would eventually lose the penalty shootout. On 31 October, Leicester made amends for their League Cup exit as they travelled to West Bromwich Albion and ran out as 3–2 winners, with Mahrez scoring a brace and Vardy netting in another goal; this was his eighth consecutive match with at least one goal.

On 7 November, Leicester won 2–1 against Watford . N’Golo Kanté scored his first and only goal for the Foxes, and Vardy dispatched another penalty. Troy Deeney scored the only goal for the visitors, also a penalty. On 21 November, Leicester beat Newcastle United 3–0 at St James’s Park , with goals from Vardy, Okazaki and Leonardo Ulloa . One week later, Vardy set a new record by scoring in 11 consecutive games after he scored against Manchester United ; the record was previously held by Ruud van Nistelrooy , who played for United. The match ended in a 1–1 draw, with Bastian Schweinsteiger scoring the equaliser before the break.

On 5 December, Mahrez scored a hat-trick to beat Swansea City 3–0. On 14 December, Leicester beat defending champions Chelsea 2–1, in what proved to be José Mourinho ’s final game as manager of the Blues. Mahrez and Vardy were on the scoresheet once again for the Foxes. On 19 December, Leicester beat Everton 3–2 at Goodison Park thanks to two penalties scored by Mahrez and another goal from Okazaki. On Boxing Day, Leicester lost 1–0 to Liverpool at Anfield thanks to a second half goal from Christian Benteke . The defeat ended a nine-match unbeaten run for the Foxes. On 29 December, their last game of the calendar year, Leicester hosted Manchester City in a goalless draw. As a result, Leicester missed the opportunity to maintain their position at the top of the table, as Arsenal, who beat Bournemouth 2–0 the day before, moved to first on goal difference.

In their first game of 2016, Leicester were held to another goalless draw against Bournemouth, during which Leicester were given a penalty; Mahrez's shot was saved by Artur Boruc . This meant that Leicester missed the opportunity to top the table again, as Arsenal’s 1–0 win over Newcastle saw them move two points clear of the Foxes. On 10 January, Leicester travelled to White Hart Lane to play against Tottenham Hotspur in the third round of the FA Cup , where they were held to a 2–2 draw. On 13 January, they travelled to White Hart Lane again, this time in the league, where Robert Huth scored a late winner in a 1–0 victory. On 16 January, Okazaki put Leicester ahead against Aston Villa. Mahrez missed another penalty, then in the second half, Rudy Gestede equalised for the hosts. In the FA Cup third round replay at the King Power Stadium, on 20 January, Leicester lost 2–0.  The Foxes would make amends for the FA Cup exit by returning to the top of the Premier League with a 3–0 home victory over Stoke on 23 January. They moved three points clear as Manchester City drew 2–2 against West Ham, and Arsenal played a goalless draw against Stoke a week earlier (on the same day Leicester drew against Aston Villa).

On 2 February, Vardy scored from 25 yards out against Liverpool, before adding another in a 2–0 home victory. The result maintained Leicester’s lead in the table. On 6 February, the Foxes travelled to the Etihad Stadium to face second-place Manchester City. The visitors won 3–1 thanks to Mahrez and a brace from Huth; Sergio Agüero scored the consolation goal for City late in the second half. The result saw Leicester move five points clear on top. On 14 February, Leicester took the lead against Arsenal at the Emirates thanks to a penalty by Vardy. In the second half, Leicester were reduced to 10 men as Danny Simpson was sent off, and Theo Walcott would later equalise. Danny Welbeck then scored the winner for Arsenal with the last kick of the game. This cut Leicester’s lead to two points; Arsenal and their north London rivals Tottenham shared the same number of points, however, the latter had a superior goal difference and so they took second place. On 27 February, Leonardo Ulloa scored a late winner against Norwich in a 1–0 victory. Leicester were still two points ahead despite Tottenham's 2–1 win over Swansea. Arsenal fell to third after losing 3–2 to Manchester United at Old Trafford .

On 1 March, Leicester drew 2–2 to West Bromwich Albion. Salomon Randón scored for the Baggies, before Jonas Olsson scored an own goal to level the score. Leicester took the lead heading into halftime, thanks to Andy King, but Craig Gardner would equalise for the visitors early in the second half. On 5 March, Leicester won 1–0 away to Watford. On 14 March, Leicester hosted Newcastle United in another 1–0 victory. On 19 March, Leicester won 1–0 again, this time against Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park .

On 3 April, Leicester hosted Southampton and won 1–0 once again. On 10 April, Vardy scored both goals in a 2–0 win away to Sunderland. Tottenham's 3–0 win over Manchester United on the same day meant that Leicester were guaranteed UEFA Champions League football for the first time in the club's history. On 17 April, Vardy scored his 19th goal of the season against West Ham. He was then sent off in the second half, after receiving a second yellow card. West Ham would take the lead through a penalty from Andy Carroll and Aaron Cresswell . An injury-time penalty scored by Ulloa rescued a point for Leicester as they maintained their lead at the top of the table. On 24 April, Leicester thrashed Swansea 4–0 thanks to goals from Mahrez, two from Ulloa, and another from Albrighton.

On 1 May, Manchester United took an early lead against Leicester at Old Trafford thanks to Anthony Martial , but minutes later, Wes Morgan equalised for the visitors. Danny Drinkwater was sent off after receiving two yellow cards, and the match ended in a 1–1 draw. This result meant that Leicester were just two points away from being crowned champions, and their title success would be confirmed if Tottenham failed to beat Chelsea the following day.

The title decider came on 2 May 2016, a London derby between Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur at Stamford Bridge . In the first half of the match, goals from Harry Kane and Son Heung-min put Tottenham 2–0 ahead. After the break, Gary Cahill pulled one back for Chelsea before substitute Eden Hazard scored a late equaliser to end Tottenham's title hopes. At the full time whistle, Leicester were confirmed champions of England, with the home crowd celebrating their former coach Ranieri's achievement.

On 7 May, the newly crowned champions of England beat Everton 3–1, with Vardy scoring 2 goals and King scoring a third. Vardy had the opportunity to complete a hat-trick by converting a penalty, but he would blaze the ball over the crossbar. Their final league match was a 1–1 draw against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on 15 May. Cesc Fàbregas converted a penalty before Drinkwater equalised for the visitors.

At the end of the season, Leicester City finished with 81 points, winning 23 games, drawing 12, and losing just three. Arsenal secured second after beating relegated Aston Villa 4–0, finishing one point ahead of North London rivals Tottenham, who lost 5–1 away to fellow relegated side Newcastle.

Supplier: Puma / Sponsor: King Power

Win Draw Loss

Total spending: £ 27,300,000

Total incoming: £ 7,000,000

Win Draw Loss

Source: Soccerway

Source: Premier League

On 17 June 2015, the fixtures for the forthcoming season were announced.

Leicester City entered the competition in the third round, and were drawn away to Tottenham Hotspur on 7 December 2015.

Leicester City entered the competition in the second round and were drawn away to Bury . The third round draw was made on 25 August 2015 live on Sky Sports by Charlie Nicholas and Phil Thompson . Leicester City were drawn at home to West Ham United .

At the end of the season, Leicester's annual award ceremony, including categories voted for by the players and backroom staff, the supporters, saw the players recognized for their achievements for the club throughout the 2015–16 season.

All data from LCFC.com